- High Level -

-- Game philosophy --

The game would be a cross between Sim Ant (automated
growth), Populus (disasters), and Civilization. It would be a
turn-based strategy in which a malevolent higher power (Baal?) is
trying to inhibit and eventually exterminate a developing
civilization. The human player would play as Baal and the AI would
play the civilization. The twist to the game, what would make it
unique, would be the focus on keeping things somewhat scientifically
accurate. As a simple example, you would not be able to cast
hurricanes during winter or create volcanic eruptions in geologically
inactive locations.

-- Game mechanics --

A map consisting of discrete tiles/hexes would be generated. Each tile
would have a number of key properties:
* Food
* Production
* Damage â€“ Damaged tiles would have reduced yield but recover over time

Tiles would "vulnerable" to various disasters based on a wide range of
tile attributes (climate, current weather, proximity to fault lines
etc).

-- Cities --

As a city grows, it works the nearby tiles. Food contributes to
population growth and production contributes to city hit-points, tile
infrastructure (enhances yield, but is susceptible to being damaged or
destroyed), or settlers (can found new cities). The goal here would be
to keep things simple so that the AI would not have to be too complex.

Cities would have different vulnerabilities based on their size and
location. Tropical cities would be more vulnerable to disease (and
hurricanes if they were near the coast). Larger cities would be more
vulnerable to earthquakes and fires. Cold-climate cities would be more
vulnerable to blizzards.

-- Civilization --

The civilization's total population contributes to tech growth, with
tech growth acting as a multiplier on production and probably having
other impacts as well (maybe making the civ more resistant to smaller
disasters or increasing population growth).

-- Gameplay --

In between turns, the civilization will grow and develop. During
Baal's turn, he will be presented with a current layout of the
land. The seasons will alternate between winter and summer. The state
of all geological, biological, and climatological properties would be
somewhat randomized. Based on the current state, the player may see
opportunities to hit the civilization with various
disasters. Disasters cost mana; total mana and mana regeneration will
depend on your "level". Levels are gained by killing people, just like
an RPG. There may even be room for some kind of talent tree here where
you could focus on different categories of disasters.

-- Multiplayer --

An open question is whether the game should be symmetric or simply
Baal vs humans. A symmetric game, where both player control a
civilization and can cast disasters on each others civilizations,
would easy to adapt to multiplayer. This would also open up the
possibility of being able to cast beneficial spells on your own civ,
perhaps making the game feel less sadistic.

-- Game goals --

Present the player with interesting choices, simple game mechanics,
but deep strategy. Give the player the satisfaction and thrill of
unleashing successful combinations of disasters. The game should have
a strong problem-solving element; IE decisions on what disasters to
cast should be non-trivial.

- Details -

-- World --

--- Atmosphere ---

--- Land ---

---- Yields ----

--- Ocean ---

--- Geologic ---

-- AI --

--- City Growth ---

--- City Build Possibilities ---

---- Infrastructure ----

---- Settling New Cities ----

